docs/pstar_plist_pdict.md, before:

# [`pstar`](./pstar.md).[`plist`](./pstar_plist.md).`pdict(self, *args, **kwargs)`

Convert `self` to a [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) if there is a natural mapping of keys to values in `self`.

Attempts to treat the contents of `self` as key-value pairs in order to create the [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md).
If that fails, checks if `self.root()` is a [`plist`](./pstar_plist.md) of `KeyValue` `namedtuple`s. If so, uses
`self.root().key` for the keys, and the values in `self` for the values. Otherwise,
attempts to create a [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) pairing values from `self.root()` with values from `self`.

**Examples:**
```python
pl = plist['foo', 'bar', 'baz']
assert (pl.pdict() ==
        dict(foo='foo', bar='bar', baz='baz'))
assert (pl.replace('a', '').replace('o', '').pdict() ==
        dict(foo='f', bar='br', baz='bz'))

pd = pdict(foo=1, bar=2, floo=0)
assert (pd.pitems().pdict() == pd)
assert (pd.palues().pdict() == pd)
assert ((pd.palues() + 2).pdict() ==
        dict(foo=3, bar=4, floo=2))
assert (pd.peys()._[0].pdict(),
        pdict(foo='f', bar='b', floo='f'))

foos = plist([pdict(foo=0, bar=0), pdict(foo=1, bar=1), pdict(foo=2, bar=0)])
assert (foos.foo.pstr().zip(foos.bar).uproot().pdict() ==
        {'0': 0, '1': 1, '2': 0})

assert (plist[('foo', 1), ('foo', 2)].pdict() ==
        dict(foo=2))
```

**Returns:**

>    New [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) based on the contents of `self`.



## [Source](../pstar/pstar.py#L3524-L3566)

Commit message:

Change semantics of plist.pdict to not look for pairs unless self is self.root(). This avoids accidentally creating a pdict just because the plist consisted of elements of length 2. Fix numerous bugs in conversion code exposed by change to plist.pdict. Add some tests for new and corrected behaviors. All tests pass on 2.7 and 3.6.

docs/pstar_plist_pdict.md, after:

# [`pstar`](./pstar.md).[`plist`](./pstar_plist.md).`pdict(self, *args, **kwargs)`

Convert `self` to a [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) if there is a natural mapping of keys to values in `self`.

If `self is self.root()`, attempts to treat the contents of `self` as key-value pairs in order
to create the [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) (i.e., `[(key, value), (key, value), ...]`). If that fails, attempts to build
the [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) assuming `self.root()` is a [`plist`](./pstar_plist.md) of `KeyValue` `namedtuple`s, using `self.root().key`
for the keys, and the values in `self` for the values. If that fails, creates a [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) pairing
values from `self.root()` with values from `self`. In that case, if `self is self.root()`, the
[`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) will be of the form: `pdict(v1=v1, v2=v2, ...)`, as in the first example below.

**Examples:**
```python
pl = plist['foo', 'bar', 'baz']
assert (pl.pdict() ==
        dict(foo='foo', bar='bar', baz='baz'))
assert (pl.replace('a', '').replace('o', '').pdict() ==
        dict(foo='f', bar='br', baz='bz'))

pd = pdict(foo=1, bar=2, floo=0)
assert (pd.pitems().pdict() == pd)
assert (pd.palues().pdict() == pd)
assert ((pd.palues() + 2).pdict() ==
        dict(foo=3, bar=4, floo=2))
assert (pd.peys()._[0].pdict(),
        pdict(foo='f', bar='b', floo='f'))

foos = plist([pdict(foo=0, bar=0), pdict(foo=1, bar=1), pdict(foo=2, bar=0)])
assert (foos.foo.pstr().zip(foos.bar).uproot().pdict() ==
        {'0': 0, '1': 1, '2': 0})

assert (plist[('foo', 1), ('foo', 2)].pdict() ==
        dict(foo=2))
```

If you created this [`plist`](./pstar_plist.md) from a [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md), but you want to use pairs in `self` to create the
new [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md), you will need to [`uproot`](./pstar_plist_uproot.md) first:
```python
pd = pdict(foo=1, bar=2.0, baz=3.3)
pl = pd.palues().apply(lambda x: (str(x), x))
pd2 = pl.pdict()
pd3 = pl.uproot().pdict()
assert (pl.aslist() ==
        [('2.0', 2.0), ('3.3', 3.3), ('1', 1)])
assert (pd2 ==
        dict(foo=('1', 1), bar=('2.0', 2.0), baz=('3.3', 3.3)))
assert (pd3 ==
        {'1': 1, '2.0': 2.0, '3.3': 3.3})
```

**Args:**

>    **`*args`**: Passed to `pdict.update` after the new [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) is created.

>    **`**kwargs`**: Passed to `pdict.update` after the new [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) is created.

**Returns:**

>    New [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) based on the contents of `self`.



## [Source](../pstar/pstar.py#L3538-L3605)
