docs/pstar_pstar.md, before:

# [`pstar`](./pstar.md).`pstar(object)`

Recursively converts between standard python types and pstar types.

**Examples:**

Converting python types to [`pstar`](./pstar.md) types:
```python
data = [dict(foo=[0, 1, 2], bar=dict(bin=0), baz=defaultdict(int, a=1, b=2, c=3)),
        dict(foo=[1, 2, 3], bar=dict(bin=1), baz=frozenset([3, 4, 5])),
        dict(foo=[2, 3, 4], bar=dict(bin=0), baz=set([7, 8, 9]))]

# Recursively convert all pstar-compatible types:
pl = pstar(data)
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [plist, plist, plist])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultpdict, frozenpset, pset])

# An alternative way to do the same conversion:
pl = pstar * data
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [plist, plist, plist])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultpdict, frozenpset, pset])

# Only convert the outermost object:
pl = pstar + data
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [list, list, list])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])

# The same outer conversion, as a function call:
pl = pstar(data, depth=1)
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [list, list, list])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])

# Convert two layers:
pl = pstar(data, depth=2)
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [list, list, list])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])

pl = pstar * data

# Convert from pstar types back to python types:
data2 = pl / pstar
assert (data2 == data)
assert (type(data2) == list)
assert ([type(x) for x in data2] == [dict, dict, dict])
assert ([type(x['foo']) for x in data2] == [list, list, list])
assert ([type(x['bar']) for x in data2] == [dict, dict, dict])
assert ([type(x['baz']) for x in data2] == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])

# Only convert the outermost object:
data2 = pl - pstar
assert (data2 == data)
assert (type(data2) == list)
assert ([type(x) for x in data2] == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert ([type(x['foo']) for x in data2] == [plist, plist, plist])
assert ([type(x['bar']) for x in data2] == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert ([type(x['baz']) for x in data2] == [defaultpdict, frozenpset, pset])
```

You can also convert from each [`pstar`](./pstar.md) class to its python equivalent and back using
arithmetic operations on the `class` itself, for convenience:
```python
d1 = {'foo': 1, 'bar': 2}
pd = pdict * d1
assert (type(d1) == dict)
assert (type(pd) == pdict)
assert (pd == d1)

d2 = pd / pdict
assert (type(d2) == dict)
assert (d2 == d1)

pl = plist * data
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [plist, plist, plist])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])

data2 = data * pdict
assert (type(data2) == list)
assert (plist(data2).apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (plist(data2).foo.apply(type).aslist() == [list, list, list])
assert (plist(data2).bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (plist(data2).baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])

pl = plist + data * pdict
assert (type(pl) == plist)
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [list, list, list])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])
```

You can't do arbitrary arithmetic with the conversion methods, though.
One conversion method can't directly operate on another:
```python
try:
  plist * pdict * data
except Exception as e:
  assert (isinstance(e, ValueError))
```

If you want to combine multiple conversions, order of operations matters:
```python
pl = plist + pdict * data
assert (type(pl) == plist)
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [list, list, list])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])

pl = plist * (pdict * data)
assert (type(pl) == plist)
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [plist, plist, plist])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
```

You can combine `pstar.pstar` and the [`pstar`](./pstar.md) classes together to do partial conversion:
```python
pl = pstar * data / pset
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [plist, plist, plist])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultpdict, frozenpset, set])
```

The semantics of the operators are:
 - `+` and `-`: Non-recursive conversions (only the operand itself is converted).
 - `*` and `/`: Recursive conversions (the operand and any children are converted).
 - `+` and `*` on the left or right: Convert python classes to [`pstar`](./pstar.md) classes; e.g., `dict` to [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md).
 - `-` and `/` on the right: Convert [`pstar`](./pstar.md) classes to python classes; e.g., [`plist`](./pstar_plist.md) to `list`.
 - `-` and `/` on the left: Convert non-[`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) [`pstar`](./pstar.md) types to their python equivalents.

Below are examples focused on [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md)s, but the same is true for all of the operators:
```python

# Starting from a nested pstar object, you may want to convert pdicts to dicts.
pd = pdict(foo=plist[1, 2, 3], bar=pset[4, 5, 6], baz=pdict(a=7, b=8, d=9))

# Subtracting by pdict will convert a top-level pdict to dict, but will leave other objects alone.
d = pd - pdict
assert (type(d) == dict)
assert (type(d['foo']) == plist)
assert (type(d['bar']) == pset)
assert (type(d['baz']) == pdict)  # Note that the child is still a pdict!

pl = pd.foo - pdict
assert (type(pl) == plist)  # The type is unchanged, since pd.foo is not a pdict
assert (pl is not pd.foo)  # Conversion still creates a new copy, though!
assert (pl == pd.foo)  # But the contents are identical, of course.

# Dividing by pdict will convert any pdict values to dicts, but leave others unchanged.
d = pd / pdict
assert (type(d) == dict)
assert (type(d['foo']) == plist)
assert (type(d['bar']) == pset)
assert (type(d['baz']) == dict)  # Note that the child is a dict!

# You probably shouldn't left-subtract by pdict, but you can. It converts any other pstar classes
# to their python equivalents, but leaves pdicts alone.
pd2 = pdict - pd
assert (type(pd2) == pdict)

l = pdict - pd.foo
assert (type(l) == list)
assert (type(pd.foo) == plist)
assert (l == pd.foo)

# Left division is also not recommended, but it works. It converts all other pstar classes
# to their python equivalents, but leaves pdicts alone.
pd2 = pdict / pd
assert (type(pd2) == pdict)
assert (type(pd2.foo) == list)
assert (type(pd2.bar) == set)
assert (type(pd2.baz) == pdict)
```

The only exceptions are for the [`pstar`](./pstar.md) left subtraction and left division, which are identical
to right subtraction and right division:
```python
d = pd - pstar
assert (type(d) == dict)
assert (type(d['foo']) == plist)
assert (type(d['bar']) == pset)
assert (type(d['baz']) == pdict)

d = pstar - pd
assert (type(d) == dict)
assert (type(d['foo']) == plist)
assert (type(d['bar']) == pset)
assert (type(d['baz']) == pdict)

d = pd / pstar
assert (type(d) == dict)
assert (type(d['foo']) == list)
assert (type(d['bar']) == set)
assert (type(d['baz']) == dict)

d = pstar / pd
assert (type(d) == dict)
assert (type(d['foo']) == list)
assert (type(d['bar']) == set)
assert (type(d['baz']) == dict)
```

You can also access the core [`pstar`](./pstar.md) classes from the [`pstar`](./pstar.md) conversion object:
```python
foos = pstar.plist([pstar.pdict(foo=0, bar=0), pstar.pdict(foo=1, bar=1), pstar.pdict(foo=2, bar=0)])
```

This is convenient if you only imported as `from pstar import pstar`.



## [Source](../pstar/pstar.py#L5655-L5888)

Commit message:

Change semantics of plist.pdict to not look for pairs unless self is self.root(). This avoids accidentally creating a pdict just because the plist consisted of elements of length 2. Fix numerous bugs in conversion code exposed by change to plist.pdict. Add some tests for new and corrected behaviors. All tests pass on 2.7 and 3.6.

docs/pstar_pstar.md, after:

# [`pstar`](./pstar.md).`pstar(object)`

Recursively converts between standard python types and pstar types.

**Examples:**

Converting python types to [`pstar`](./pstar.md) types:
```python
data = [dict(foo=[0, 1, 2], bar=dict(bin=0), baz=defaultdict(int, a=1, b=2, c=3)),
        dict(foo=[1, 2, 3], bar=dict(bin=1), baz=frozenset([3, 4, 5])),
        dict(foo=[2, 3, 4], bar=dict(bin=0), baz=set([7, 8, 9]))]

# Recursively convert all pstar-compatible types:
pl = pstar(data)
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [plist, plist, plist])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultpdict, frozenpset, pset])

# An alternative way to do the same conversion:
pl = pstar * data
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [plist, plist, plist])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultpdict, frozenpset, pset])

# Only convert the outermost object:
pl = pstar + data
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [list, list, list])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])

# The same outer conversion, as a function call:
pl = pstar(data, depth=1)
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [list, list, list])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])

# Convert two layers:
pl = pstar(data, depth=2)
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [list, list, list])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])

pl = pstar * data

# Convert from pstar types back to python types:
data2 = pl / pstar
assert (data2 == data)
assert (type(data2) == list)
assert ([type(x) for x in data2] == [dict, dict, dict])
assert ([type(x['foo']) for x in data2] == [list, list, list])
assert ([type(x['bar']) for x in data2] == [dict, dict, dict])
assert ([type(x['baz']) for x in data2] == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])

# Only convert the outermost object:
data2 = pl - pstar
assert (data2 == data)
assert (type(data2) == list)
assert ([type(x) for x in data2] == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert ([type(x['foo']) for x in data2] == [plist, plist, plist])
assert ([type(x['bar']) for x in data2] == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert ([type(x['baz']) for x in data2] == [defaultpdict, frozenpset, pset])

# Convert inner objects even when outer objects have already been converted:
data3 = data2 / pstar
assert (data3 == data)
assert (type(data3) == list)
assert ([type(x) for x in data3] == [dict, dict, dict])
assert ([type(x['foo']) for x in data3] == [list, list, list])
assert ([type(x['bar']) for x in data3] == [dict, dict, dict])
assert ([type(x['baz']) for x in data3] == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])
```

You can also convert from each [`pstar`](./pstar.md) class to its python equivalent and back using
arithmetic operations on the `class` itself, for convenience:
```python
d1 = {'foo': 1, 'bar': 2}
pd = pdict * d1
assert (type(d1) == dict)
assert (type(pd) == pdict)
assert (pd == d1)

d2 = pd / pdict
assert (type(d2) == dict)
assert (d2 == d1)

pl = plist * data
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [plist, plist, plist])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [dict, dict, dict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])

data2 = data * pdict
assert (type(data2) == list)
assert (plist(data2).apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (plist(data2).foo.apply(type).aslist() == [list, list, list])
assert (plist(data2).bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (plist(data2).baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])

pl = plist + data * pdict
assert (type(pl) == plist)
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [list, list, list])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultdict, frozenset, set])
```

You can't do arbitrary arithmetic with the conversion methods, though.
One conversion method can't directly operate on another:
```python
try:
  plist * pdict * data
except Exception as e:
  assert (isinstance(e, ValueError))
```

If you want to combine multiple conversions, order of operations matters:
```python
pl = plist + pdict * data
assert (type(pl) == plist)
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [list, list, list])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])

pl = plist * (pdict * data)
assert (type(pl) == plist)
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [plist, plist, plist])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
```

You can combine `pstar.pstar` and the [`pstar`](./pstar.md) classes together to do partial conversion:
```python
pl = pstar * data / pset
assert (isinstance(pl, plist))
assert (pl.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.foo.apply(type).aslist() == [plist, plist, plist])
assert (pl.bar.apply(type).aslist() == [pdict, pdict, pdict])
assert (pl.baz.apply(type).aslist() == [defaultpdict, frozenpset, set])
```

The semantics of the operators are:
 - `+` and `-`: Non-recursive conversions (only the operand itself is converted).
 - `*` and `/`: Recursive conversions (the operand and any children are converted).
 - `+` and `*` on the left or right: Convert python classes to [`pstar`](./pstar.md) classes; e.g., `dict` to [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md).
 - `-` and `/` on the right: Convert this [`pstar`](./pstar.md) class to its equivalent python class; e.g., [`plist`](./pstar_plist.md) to `list`.
 - `-` and `/` on the left: Convert all but this [`pstar`](./pstar.md) type to their python equivalents;
                            e.g., all but [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md) get converted -- equivalent to `obj - pstar + pdict`
                            or `obj / pstar * pdict`.

Below are examples focused on [`pdict`](./pstar_pdict.md)s, but the same is true for all of the operators:
```python

# Starting from a nested pstar object, you may want to convert pdicts to dicts.
pd = pdict(foo=plist[1, 2, 3], bar=pset[4, 5, 6], baz=pdict(a=7, b=8, d=9))

# Subtracting by pdict will convert a top-level pdict to dict, but will leave other objects alone.
d = pd - pdict
assert (type(d) == dict)
assert (type(d['foo']) == plist)
assert (type(d['bar']) == pset)
assert (type(d['baz']) == pdict)  # Note that the child is still a pdict!

pl = pd.foo - pdict
assert (type(pl) == plist)  # The type is unchanged, since pd.foo is not a pdict
assert (pl is not pd.foo)  # Conversion still creates a new copy, though!
assert (pl == pd.foo)  # But the contents are identical, of course.

# Dividing by pdict will convert any pdict values to dicts, but leave others unchanged.
d = pd / pdict
assert (type(d) == dict)
assert (type(d['foo']) == plist)
assert (type(d['bar']) == pset)
assert (type(d['baz']) == dict)  # Note that the child is a dict!

# You probably shouldn't left-subtract by pdict, but you can. It converts any other pstar classes
# to their python equivalents, but leaves pdicts alone.
pd2 = pdict - pd
assert (type(pd2) == pdict)

l = pdict - pd.foo
assert (type(l) == list)
assert (type(pd.foo) == plist)
assert (l == pd.foo)

# Left division is also not recommended, but it works. It converts all other pstar classes
# to their python equivalents, but leaves pdicts alone.
pd2 = pdict / pd
assert (type(pd2) == pdict)
assert (type(pd2.foo) == list)
assert (type(pd2.bar) == set)
assert (type(pd2.baz) == pdict)
```

The only exceptions are for the [`pstar`](./pstar.md) left subtraction and left division, which are identical
to right subtraction and right division:
```python
d = pd - pstar
assert (type(d) == dict)
assert (type(d['foo']) == plist)
assert (type(d['bar']) == pset)
assert (type(d['baz']) == pdict)

d = pstar - pd
assert (type(d) == dict)
assert (type(d['foo']) == plist)
assert (type(d['bar']) == pset)
assert (type(d['baz']) == pdict)

d = pd / pstar
assert (type(d) == dict)
assert (type(d['foo']) == list)
assert (type(d['bar']) == set)
assert (type(d['baz']) == dict)

d = pstar / pd
assert (type(d) == dict)
assert (type(d['foo']) == list)
assert (type(d['bar']) == set)
assert (type(d['baz']) == dict)
```

You can also access the core [`pstar`](./pstar.md) classes from the [`pstar`](./pstar.md) conversion object:
```python
foos = pstar.plist([pstar.pdict(foo=0, bar=0), pstar.pdict(foo=1, bar=1), pstar.pdict(foo=2, bar=0)])
```

This is convenient if you only imported as `from pstar import pstar`.



## [Source](../pstar/pstar.py#L5696-L5940)
